Theory
What is Git ?
A VCS(version control system) - a tool that tracks code changes over time.
Saves snapshots of the project which is called commits
Runs on our local machine - install it 
Created by Linus Trovalds

What is Github ?
A cloud platform that hosts Git repositories online
Store the code on the cloud
Useful when we need to collaborate with other developers
Runs on Github servers
Owner: MicroSoft

How to create an account on Github ? - DIY

What is a repository ? 
Storage space for our project - similar to a folder on drive but with more features.
Local Repo: Stored on the local system when we run git init command
Remote Repo: Stored on a cloud platform like github, bitbucket etc.

What is a PR ? (Pull request)
When a developer has made a project and created a repo for that on github. Another developer wants to do some changes to the same repo. He can't as he does not own the repo but instead he can raise a PR which can be reviewed by the owners of that repo and they can take the suitable action.
A request to the repo that I have done some changes. Either review it, merge it or reject it.


What is repo cloning ?
Making a copy of the repo in the local to work on it

Practical
Create a repo on Github and link it to the local repo you have
Pushing the complete repo to Github

What are branches ? How to checkout a branch ?
Brannch represents a parallel timeline of the project. Generally in a company, three protected branches are there - develop, stage and master

What are changes, staged changes and commited changes ?
Changes - you have done some code changes in the project
Stage - the changes that will be considered to push
Commited Changes - the changes from stage now been finalized and will be pushed

Note: Github is more instead of just above concepts. Can refer: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uwyP5SNlQAU&t=3256s


Steps to push a local project to github like a github repo

Before this, create the .gitignore file to avoid pushing the node_modules and .env file to github
Step 1: Create a local repo
-> git init
You will some changes on the side bar - file colour changes - the green ones are useful to git, other than that are ignored.


Step 2: Create a remote repo to track the local repo - set the origin
a. Go to github account and login
b. Click on New
c. Give the required info and create it 
d. Setup the origin 
e. add the changes to staging area.  git add . -> stage all changes
f. commit the changes - git commit -m "some commit message" -> message should be descriptive
e. push the changes - git push --set-upstream origin master

For cloning, command is git clone repo-link, 