DSA Plan with Java 

Refresher of Java:

Variables declaration - a program to swap two numbers with and without using third variable
Decision Statements - create a simple program to find if the number is positive, negative or neutral, Taking input - In OOPs class, Using Ternary operator (odd even using Ternary Op)
Loops - print 1 to 10 counting, print 10 to 1 counting, reverse a given number, check if a number is palindrome or not - while and for loop, patterns start here 
Arrays & Strings - just create and print one array and string, with 2D matrix - for each loop 
String, StringBuilder and StringBuffer and related methods 

Collection introduction - after the basic questions

Basic questions to practice syntax and logic building foundation

1. Find reverse of the array and string,Largest Element in Array, Smallest
2. Print odd and even numbers from the array
3. All 21 patterns 
4. Check if a number is palindrome
5. Check if an array or a string is palindrome or not
6. Find factorial of a number using recursion and loops
7. Sum of first N natural numbers
8. Linear and Binary Search
9. All sorting techniques
10. Space and time Complexity

Some extra questions:
Find LCM and GCD of the number
Find if the number is prime or not
Print prime numbers between a given range
Find Fibonacci using recursion
Store count of each element in the array in the resultant frequency array

Before Recursion, do some questions:
All recursion questions as before.
Print 1 to n and n to 1 using recursion.
Get factorial 
Get fibonacci
Reverse the array using recursion.
Palindrome array using recursion.
DRY run of recursive questions - understand backtracking 
Questions from Striver Sheet, Only then start backtracking Leetcode 75

Now start LeetCode 75 - 2 months + Mock interviews with DSA questions

Trees basics: http://www.btechsmartclass.com/data_structures/tree-terminology.html

Do LeetCode 150 along with MERN stack dev - 2 major and one minor projects

